# Traveller Travel Explained

I need to codify a rule system for a tabletop role-playing game using the traveler rule system but slightly modified rules. The intent here is to capture all the rules for this version of traveler that is being used, it involves several components including a hex map data for each node of the hex map that describes the interstellar system within that hex and rules for traveling from one hex to another. Those rules for traveling are not simple or trivial but involve quite a bit of depth 

For the travel rules there are four different components to consider first is the jump drive rating of the ship being used for travel. Another is how much fuel and what type of fuel is currently on board at the start of travel, and the distance of the jump. The fourth component is the amount of time it will take to do the travel which is derived from the previous three components. 

The complexity and dynamic of these travel rules is intentional so as to create many different routes of travel from point A to point B because many different components of the travel rules must be considered an all come with various trade-offs or implications. What may seem like a simple two jump travel may end up being more complex because of the type of fuel available and the type of jump engine being used. 

Consider a hex map of three hexes stacked on top of each other that is an ahex followed by a b hex connected to its bottom side followed by C. Hex which is connected to the bottom of b. Also consider that you have a jump one drive on your ship. The distance from 1 hex to another is measured in parsecs so the distance from A to B is one parsec. The distance from a to C is two parsecs and the distance between B and C is one parsec. Travel from a to C would be two parsecs and therefore would require two jumps with a jump one drive. If the ship had a jump to drive then it could make the travel from a to C in a single jump. 

Each jump takes one base unit of fuel. In the scenario of jumping from a to c with a jump one drive, it would require two units of fuel. However, using a jump two drive would only require one unit of fuel. Fuel comes in two forms. Refined and unrefined fuel. Unrefined fuel is easily accessible and abundant throughout the entire system and there are game rules for your ship being allowed to skim gas giants so as to have unrefined fuel for your jump drive. Therefore, being in anyone hex anywhere on the the map you will have access to unrefined fuel. However, refined fuel is only accessible to players through purchase or trade. The trade will happen narratively but purchases can happen in on certain hexes that have high rated star ports. For the purpose of this project, the only thing we need to concern ourselves with is how much refined fuel is available at the start of travel and consume all refined fuel before trying to use unrefined fuel. But you can always assume even after consuming all units of refined fuel, there will be access to unrefined fuel for the rest of travel 

For instance, if I was in a jump one drive ship on hex a. And was traveling to hex C. And starting with one unit of refined fuel, this project would not determine that the travel is impossible. Rather it would assume refined fuel is used for the first jump from A to B and then unrefined fuel will be used for the rest of the trip from B to C 

Last is travel time which uses the previous three components to determine. Let's take the simple case of starting with a jump one drive one unit of refined fuel and traveling from hex a to hex B so one parsec. 

Narratively the way this plays out in game is that we are located somewhere within hex a and it is on average one week away from the jump Port of our hex. A jump Port is an exit point and entry point into the hex and is the means of travel through jump space. So we would be somewhere in hexa spend one week traveling to the jump Port. We would then go into jump space and for our jump one drive we would spend one week in one parsec of jump space. We would then arrive in hex B and would need to spend an additional week traveling to our destination within hexby. Thus, the travel from hexa to hex B would take 3 weeks and consume one unit of refine fuel

Now let's discuss a travel from hex a. To hex C. Using a jump drive, 1 rated ship and two units of refined fuel. First, the party would spend one week traveling to hex A's jump Port and then would spend an additional week in jump space jumping from A to B. But instead of spending a week of travel in hex B, we can just immediately jump again from hex B. To hex C which is one week of travel and then upon arriving in hex C spend an additional week of travel to arrive to our destination. Thus, the travel from hex a to hex C on a jump. One drive would take two jumps and take 4 weeks of travel. And consume two units of refined fuel

Now let's imagine the travel from hexa to hex C on a jump 2 drive with two units of refined fuel. There would be one week of travel to the hexa jump port. Then one week of travel and jump space from the hexa star port to the hex C. Star port followed by an additional week of travel to the destination within hex C. Thus travel would take 3 weeks and consume one unit of refined fuel 

Continuing with travel from A to C. Let's do it this time with a jump drive one and one unit of refined fuel. As discovered earlier, this will require two jumps but only the first jump will be with refined fuel. So therefore from B to C, it will require the consumption of unrefined fuel. For the purpose of this project, that is fine and it should only be noted in any planning or calculations made for how many units of unrefined fuel are required to go from source. X to destination y and on what parts of the travel the unrefined fuel is required. So for our travel from A to C on jump one drive and one unit of refined fuel, the amount of time does not change. But it would be noted that one unit of unrefined fuel is needed from B to C.